# Lidar-Based Evaluation of Pantropical Allometric Equations for Carbon Stock Estimates in Reforested Areas in Southern Ecuador

## Abstract

Tropical forests play a major role in tackling climate change and biodiversity conservation. In recent years, there has not only been a social interest, but also policies impose obligations to reforest large areas in order to reduce the atmospheric CO2-concentration. Tropical reforestation has proven to be efficient in rapidly sequestering carbon and creating a habitat for biodiversity. Boosted by the carbon market, numerous corporations, organisations and countries are investing in reforestation and afforestation projects in the tropics, including in Ecuador.

Improving the quantification of above-ground biomass (AGB) is crucial for accurately monitoring carbon stocks and effectively guiding and rewarding restoration projects. Over the past decade, methods have been developed to estimate AGB using terrestrial laser scanning (TLS) data. Despite their numerous challenges in young, reforested tropical forests, TLS-derived AGB estimates can help address existing uncertainties in allometric equations.

An improved, local allometric equation constructed with TLS data of 247 trees has the potential to make better AGB and carbon stock estimates for reforested areas in the Ecuadorian Andes and Amazon. Four models are constructed and one of them was able to estimate the AGB more accurately than the commonly used pantropical allometric equation of (Chave et al. 2014). The choice of allometric equation highly affects the outcome of extrapolation studies. This study's best model indicates an AGB (t/ha) of only 93% compared to the classical model. By using a local, improved allometric equation, carbon credits can be allocated in a correct way and the improved biomass estimates can support other ecological studies as well.
